xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8' ?
8 USC 1303: Registration of special groups
 Result 1 of 1
[Back to Original Document](/view.xhtml;jsessionid=DF99406EC206B43ACAF0AA04AD4558FD)
[<< Previous](#)
 [TITLE 8](/view.xhtml;jsessionid=DF99406EC206B43ACAF0AA04AD4558FD?req=granuleid%3AUSC-prelim-title8&saved=%7CZ3JhbnVsZWlkOlVTQy1wcmVsaW0tdGl0bGU4LXNlY3Rpb24xMzAz%7C%7C%7C0%7Cfalse%7Cprelim&edition=prelim) / [CHAPTER 12](/view.xhtml;jsessionid=DF99406EC206B43ACAF0AA04AD4558FD?req=granuleid%3AUSC-prelim-title8-chapter12&saved=%7CZ3JhbnVsZWlkOlVTQy1wcmVsaW0tdGl0bGU4LXNlY3Rpb24xMzAz%7C%7C%7C0%7Cfalse%7Cprelim&edition=prelim) / [SUBCHAPTER II](/view.xhtml;jsessionid=DF99406EC206B43ACAF0AA04AD4558FD?req=granuleid%3AUSC-prelim-title8-chapter12-subchapter2&saved=%7CZ3JhbnVsZWlkOlVTQy1wcmVsaW0tdGl0bGU4LXNlY3Rpb24xMzAz%7C%7C%7C0%7Cfalse%7Cprelim&edition=prelim) / [Part VII](/view.xhtml;jsessionid=DF99406EC206B43ACAF0AA04AD4558FD?req=granuleid%3AUSC-prelim-title8-chapter12-subchapter2-part7&saved=%7CZ3JhbnVsZWlkOlVTQy1wcmVsaW0tdGl0bGU4LXNlY3Rpb24xMzAz%7C%7C%7C0%7Cfalse%7Cprelim&edition=prelim) / § 1303
 [Next >>](#)
[[Print]](#)
 [[Print selection]](#)
[[OLRC Home]](/browse.xhtml;jsessionid=DF99406EC206B43ACAF0AA04AD4558FD)[Help](/navHelp.xhtml;jsessionid=DF99406EC206B43ACAF0AA04AD4558FD)
8 USC 1303: Registration of special groups
Text contains those laws in effect on April 6, 2024
From Title 8-ALIENS AND NATIONALITYCHAPTER 12-IMMIGRATION AND NATIONALITYSUBCHAPTER II-IMMIGRATIONPart VII-Registration of Aliens
Jump To: [Source Credit](#sourcecredit)[Miscellaneous](#miscellaneous-note)[Amendments](#amendment-note)[Effective Date](#effectivedate-amendment-note)
### §1303. Registration of special groups
(a) Notwithstanding the provisions of sections 1301 and 1302 of this title, the Attorney General is authorized to prescribe special regulations and forms for the registration and fingerprinting of (1) alien crewmen, (2) holders of border-crossing identification cards, (3) aliens confined in institutions within the United States, (4) aliens under order of removal, (5) aliens who are or have been on criminal probation or criminal parole within the United States, and (6) aliens of any other class not lawfully admitted to the United States for permanent residence.
(b) The provisions of section 1302 of this title and of this section shall not be applicable to any alien who is in the United States as a nonimmigrant under section 1101(a)(15)(A) or (a)(15)(G) of this title until the alien ceases to be entitled to such a nonimmigrant status.
([June 27, 1952, ch. 477, title II, ch. 7, §263, 66 Stat. 224](/statviewer.htm?volume=66&page=224); [Pub. L. 104–208, div. C, title III, §§308(e)(1)(J), 323, Sept. 30, 1996, 110 Stat. 3009–619](/statviewer.htm?volume=110&page=3009-619), [3009-629](/statviewer.htm?volume=110&page=3009-629).)
#### **Editorial Notes**
#### Amendments
**1996**-Subsec. (a)(4). Pub. L. 104–208, §308(e)(1)(J), substituted "removal" for "deportation".
Subsec. (a)(5), (6). Pub. L. 104–208, §323, added cl. (5) and redesignated former cl. (5) as (6).
#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**
#### Effective Date of 1996 Amendment
Amendment by section 308(e)(1)(J) of Pub. L. 104–208 effective, with certain transitional provisions, on the first day of the first month beginning more than 180 days after Sept. 30, 1996, see section 309 of Pub. L. 104–208, set out as a note under section 1101 of this title.
#### Abolition of Immigration and Naturalization Service and Transfer of Functions
For abolition of Immigration and Naturalization Service, transfer of functions, and treatment of related references, see note set out under section 1551 of this title.
#### References to Order of Removal Deemed To Include Order of Exclusion and Deportation
For purposes of carrying out this chapter, any reference in law to an order of removal is deemed to include a reference to an order of exclusion and deportation or an order of deportation, see section 309(d)(2) of Pub. L. 104–208, set out in an Effective Date of 1996 Amendments note under section 1101 of this title.
