xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8' ?
8 USC 1426: Citizenship denied alien relieved of service in Armed Forces because of alienage
 Result 1 of 1
[Back to Original Document](/view.xhtml;jsessionid=F4D97C0ECED612460B107B333DACE7CA)
[<< Previous](#)
 [TITLE 8](/view.xhtml;jsessionid=F4D97C0ECED612460B107B333DACE7CA?req=granuleid%3AUSC-prelim-title8&saved=%7CZ3JhbnVsZWlkOlVTQy1wcmVsaW0tdGl0bGU4LXNlY3Rpb24xNDI2%7C%7C%7C0%7Cfalse%7Cprelim&edition=prelim) / [CHAPTER 12](/view.xhtml;jsessionid=F4D97C0ECED612460B107B333DACE7CA?req=granuleid%3AUSC-prelim-title8-chapter12&saved=%7CZ3JhbnVsZWlkOlVTQy1wcmVsaW0tdGl0bGU4LXNlY3Rpb24xNDI2%7C%7C%7C0%7Cfalse%7Cprelim&edition=prelim) / [SUBCHAPTER III](/view.xhtml;jsessionid=F4D97C0ECED612460B107B333DACE7CA?req=granuleid%3AUSC-prelim-title8-chapter12-subchapter3&saved=%7CZ3JhbnVsZWlkOlVTQy1wcmVsaW0tdGl0bGU4LXNlY3Rpb24xNDI2%7C%7C%7C0%7Cfalse%7Cprelim&edition=prelim) / [Part II](/view.xhtml;jsessionid=F4D97C0ECED612460B107B333DACE7CA?req=granuleid%3AUSC-prelim-title8-chapter12-subchapter3-part2&saved=%7CZ3JhbnVsZWlkOlVTQy1wcmVsaW0tdGl0bGU4LXNlY3Rpb24xNDI2%7C%7C%7C0%7Cfalse%7Cprelim&edition=prelim) / § 1426
 [Next >>](#)
[[Print]](#)
 [[Print selection]](#)
[[OLRC Home]](/browse.xhtml;jsessionid=F4D97C0ECED612460B107B333DACE7CA)[Help](/navHelp.xhtml;jsessionid=F4D97C0ECED612460B107B333DACE7CA)
8 USC 1426: Citizenship denied alien relieved of service in Armed Forces because of alienage
Text contains those laws in effect on April 6, 2024
From Title 8-ALIENS AND NATIONALITYCHAPTER 12-IMMIGRATION AND NATIONALITYSUBCHAPTER III-NATIONALITY AND NATURALIZATIONPart II-Nationality Through Naturalization
Jump To: [Source Credit](#sourcecredit)[Miscellaneous](#miscellaneous-note)[References In Text](#referenceintext-note)[Amendments](#amendment-note)[Effective Date](#effectivedate-amendment-note)
### §1426. Citizenship denied alien relieved of service in Armed Forces because of alienage
#### (a) Permanent ineligibility
Notwithstanding the provisions of section 405(b) [1](#1426_1_target) but subject to subsection (c), any alien who applies or has applied for exemption or discharge from training or service in the Armed Forces or in the National Security Training Corps of the United States on the ground that he is an alien, and is or was relieved or discharged from such training or service on such ground, shall be permanently ineligible to become a citizen of the United States.
#### (b) Conclusiveness of records
The records of the Selective Service System or of the Department of Defense shall be conclusive as to whether an alien was relieved or discharged from such liability for training or service because he was an alien.
#### (c) Service in armed forces of foreign country
An alien shall not be ineligible for citizenship under this section or otherwise because of an exemption from training or service in the Armed Forces of the United States pursuant to the exercise of rights under a treaty, if before the time of the exercise of such rights the alien served in the Armed Forces of a foreign country of which the alien was a national.
([June 27, 1952, ch. 477, title III, ch. 2, §315, 66 Stat. 242](/statviewer.htm?volume=66&page=242); [Pub. L. 100–525, §9(v), Oct. 24, 1988, 102 Stat. 2621](/statviewer.htm?volume=102&page=2621); [Pub. L. 101–649, title IV, §404, Nov. 29, 1990, 104 Stat. 5039](/statviewer.htm?volume=104&page=5039).)
#### **Editorial Notes**
#### References in Text
Section 405(b), referred to in subsec. (a), is section 405(b) of act [June 27, 1952, ch. 477, title IV, 66 Stat. 280](/statviewer.htm?volume=66&page=280), which is set out as a Savings Clause note under section 1101 of this title.
#### Amendments
**1990**-Subsec. (a). Pub. L. 101–649, §404(1), inserted "but subject to subsection (c)" after "section 405(b)".
Subsec. (c). Pub. L. 101–649, §404(2), added subsec. (c).
**1988**-Subsec. (b). Pub. L. 100–525 substituted "Department of Defense" for "National Military Establishment".
#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**
#### Effective Date of 1990 Amendment
Amendment by Pub. L. 101–649 applicable to exemptions from training or service obtained before, on, or after Nov. 29, 1990, see section 408(e) of Pub. L. 101–649, set out as a note under section 1421 of this title.
[1 See References in Text note below.](#1426_1)
