xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8' ?
8 USC 1355: Disposal of privileges at immigrant stations; rentals; retail sale; disposition of receipts
 Result 1 of 1
[Back to Original Document](/view.xhtml;jsessionid=5D8ACFF58A755449B3B69CD1A2FCEEEC)
[<< Previous](#)
 [TITLE 8](/view.xhtml;jsessionid=5D8ACFF58A755449B3B69CD1A2FCEEEC?req=granuleid%3AUSC-prelim-title8&saved=%7CZ3JhbnVsZWlkOlVTQy1wcmVsaW0tdGl0bGU4LXNlY3Rpb24xMzU1%7C%7C%7C0%7Cfalse%7Cprelim&edition=prelim) / [CHAPTER 12](/view.xhtml;jsessionid=5D8ACFF58A755449B3B69CD1A2FCEEEC?req=granuleid%3AUSC-prelim-title8-chapter12&saved=%7CZ3JhbnVsZWlkOlVTQy1wcmVsaW0tdGl0bGU4LXNlY3Rpb24xMzU1%7C%7C%7C0%7Cfalse%7Cprelim&edition=prelim) / [SUBCHAPTER II](/view.xhtml;jsessionid=5D8ACFF58A755449B3B69CD1A2FCEEEC?req=granuleid%3AUSC-prelim-title8-chapter12-subchapter2&saved=%7CZ3JhbnVsZWlkOlVTQy1wcmVsaW0tdGl0bGU4LXNlY3Rpb24xMzU1%7C%7C%7C0%7Cfalse%7Cprelim&edition=prelim) / [Part IX](/view.xhtml;jsessionid=5D8ACFF58A755449B3B69CD1A2FCEEEC?req=granuleid%3AUSC-prelim-title8-chapter12-subchapter2-part9&saved=%7CZ3JhbnVsZWlkOlVTQy1wcmVsaW0tdGl0bGU4LXNlY3Rpb24xMzU1%7C%7C%7C0%7Cfalse%7Cprelim&edition=prelim) / § 1355
 [Next >>](#)
[[Print]](#)
 [[Print selection]](#)
[[OLRC Home]](/browse.xhtml;jsessionid=5D8ACFF58A755449B3B69CD1A2FCEEEC)[Help](/navHelp.xhtml;jsessionid=5D8ACFF58A755449B3B69CD1A2FCEEEC)
8 USC 1355: Disposal of privileges at immigrant stations; rentals; retail sale; disposition of receipts
Text contains those laws in effect on April 6, 2024
From Title 8-ALIENS AND NATIONALITYCHAPTER 12-IMMIGRATION AND NATIONALITYSUBCHAPTER II-IMMIGRATIONPart IX-Miscellaneous
Jump To: [Source Credit](#sourcecredit)[Miscellaneous](#miscellaneous-note)[Codification](#codification-note)
### §1355. Disposal of privileges at immigrant stations; rentals; retail sale; disposition of receipts
(a) Subject to such conditions and limitations as the Attorney General shall prescribe, all exclusive privileges of exchanging money, transporting passengers or baggage, keeping eating houses, or other like privileges in connection with any United States immigrant station, shall be disposed of to the lowest responsible and capable bidder (other than an alien) in accordance with the provision of section 6101 of title 41 and for the use of Government property in connection with the exercise of such exclusive privileges a reasonable rental may be charged. The feeding of aliens, or the furnishing of any other necessary service in connection with any United States immigrant station, may be performed by the Service without regard to the foregoing provisions of this subsection if the Attorney General shall find that it would be advantageous to the Government in terms of economy and efficiency. No intoxicating liquors shall be sold at any immigrant station.
(b) Such articles determined by the Attorney General to be necessary to the health and welfare of aliens detained at any immigrant station, when not otherwise readily procurable by such aliens, may be sold at reasonable prices to such aliens through Government canteens operated by the Service, under such conditions and limitations as the Attorney General shall prescribe.
(c) All rentals or other receipts accruing from the disposal of privileges, and all moneys arising from the sale of articles through Service-operated canteens, authorized by this section, shall be covered into the Treasury to the credit of the appropriation for the enforcement of this subchapter.
([June 27, 1952, ch. 477, title II, ch. 9, §285, 66 Stat. 232](/statviewer.htm?volume=66&page=232).)
#### **Editorial Notes**
#### Codification
In subsec. (a), "section 6101 of title 41" substituted for "[section 3709 of the Revised Statutes](/statviewer.htm?volume=rs&page=733), as amended (41 U.S.C. 5)," on authority of [Pub. L. 111–350, §6(c), Jan. 4, 2011, 124 Stat. 3854](/statviewer.htm?volume=124&page=3854), which Act enacted Title 41, Public Contracts.
#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**
#### Abolition of Immigration and Naturalization Service and Transfer of Functions
For abolition of Immigration and Naturalization Service, transfer of functions, and treatment of related references, see note set out under section 1551 of this title.
