xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8' ?
8 USC 1260: Removal of aliens falling into distress
 Result 1 of 1
[Back to Original Document](/view.xhtml;jsessionid=D084B42BA16D90D71D33972ABE63FAAC)
[<< Previous](#)
 [TITLE 8](/view.xhtml;jsessionid=D084B42BA16D90D71D33972ABE63FAAC?req=granuleid%3AUSC-prelim-title8&saved=%7CZ3JhbnVsZWlkOlVTQy1wcmVsaW0tdGl0bGU4LXNlY3Rpb24xMjYw%7C%7C%7C0%7Cfalse%7Cprelim&edition=prelim) / [CHAPTER 12](/view.xhtml;jsessionid=D084B42BA16D90D71D33972ABE63FAAC?req=granuleid%3AUSC-prelim-title8-chapter12&saved=%7CZ3JhbnVsZWlkOlVTQy1wcmVsaW0tdGl0bGU4LXNlY3Rpb24xMjYw%7C%7C%7C0%7Cfalse%7Cprelim&edition=prelim) / [SUBCHAPTER II](/view.xhtml;jsessionid=D084B42BA16D90D71D33972ABE63FAAC?req=granuleid%3AUSC-prelim-title8-chapter12-subchapter2&saved=%7CZ3JhbnVsZWlkOlVTQy1wcmVsaW0tdGl0bGU4LXNlY3Rpb24xMjYw%7C%7C%7C0%7Cfalse%7Cprelim&edition=prelim) / [Part V](/view.xhtml;jsessionid=D084B42BA16D90D71D33972ABE63FAAC?req=granuleid%3AUSC-prelim-title8-chapter12-subchapter2-part5&saved=%7CZ3JhbnVsZWlkOlVTQy1wcmVsaW0tdGl0bGU4LXNlY3Rpb24xMjYw%7C%7C%7C0%7Cfalse%7Cprelim&edition=prelim) / ยง 1260
 [Next >>](#)
[[Print]](#)
 [[Print selection]](#)
[[OLRC Home]](/browse.xhtml;jsessionid=D084B42BA16D90D71D33972ABE63FAAC)[Help](/navHelp.xhtml;jsessionid=D084B42BA16D90D71D33972ABE63FAAC)
8 USC 1260: Removal of aliens falling into distress
Text contains those laws in effect on April 6, 2024
From Title 8-ALIENS AND NATIONALITYCHAPTER 12-IMMIGRATION AND NATIONALITYSUBCHAPTER II-IMMIGRATIONPart V-Adjustment and Change of Status
Jump To: [Source Credit](#sourcecredit)[Miscellaneous](#miscellaneous-note)[References In Text](#referenceintext-note)
### ยง1260. Removal of aliens falling into distress
The Attorney General may remove from the United States any alien who falls into distress or who needs public aid from causes arising subsequent to his entry, and is desirous of being so removed, to the native country of such alien, or to the country from which he came, or to the country of which he is a citizen or subject, or to any other country to which he wishes to go and which will receive him, at the expense of the appropriation for the enforcement of this chapter. Any alien so removed shall be ineligible to apply for or receive a visa or other documentation for readmission, or to apply for admission to the United States except with the prior approval of the Attorney General.
([June 27, 1952, ch. 477, title II, ch. 5, ยง250, 66 Stat. 219](/statviewer.htm?volume=66&page=219).)
#### **Editorial Notes**
#### References in Text
This chapter, referred to in text, was in the original, "this Act", meaning act [June 27, 1952, ch. 477, 66 Stat. 163](/statviewer.htm?volume=66&page=163), known as the Immigration and Nationality Act, which is classified principally to this chapter. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 1101 of this title and Tables.
#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**
#### Abolition of Immigration and Naturalization Service and Transfer of Functions
For abolition of Immigration and Naturalization Service, transfer of functions, and treatment of related references, see note set out under section 1551 of this title.
