xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8' ?
8 USC 1352: Printing of reentry permits and blank forms of manifest and crew lists; sale to public
 Result 1 of 1
[Back to Original Document](/view.xhtml;jsessionid=6E791B1F2D19F08A5068DF0F448962F4)
[<< Previous](#)
 [TITLE 8](/view.xhtml;jsessionid=6E791B1F2D19F08A5068DF0F448962F4?req=granuleid%3AUSC-prelim-title8&saved=%7CZ3JhbnVsZWlkOlVTQy1wcmVsaW0tdGl0bGU4LXNlY3Rpb24xMzUy%7C%7C%7C0%7Cfalse%7Cprelim&edition=prelim) / [CHAPTER 12](/view.xhtml;jsessionid=6E791B1F2D19F08A5068DF0F448962F4?req=granuleid%3AUSC-prelim-title8-chapter12&saved=%7CZ3JhbnVsZWlkOlVTQy1wcmVsaW0tdGl0bGU4LXNlY3Rpb24xMzUy%7C%7C%7C0%7Cfalse%7Cprelim&edition=prelim) / [SUBCHAPTER II](/view.xhtml;jsessionid=6E791B1F2D19F08A5068DF0F448962F4?req=granuleid%3AUSC-prelim-title8-chapter12-subchapter2&saved=%7CZ3JhbnVsZWlkOlVTQy1wcmVsaW0tdGl0bGU4LXNlY3Rpb24xMzUy%7C%7C%7C0%7Cfalse%7Cprelim&edition=prelim) / [Part IX](/view.xhtml;jsessionid=6E791B1F2D19F08A5068DF0F448962F4?req=granuleid%3AUSC-prelim-title8-chapter12-subchapter2-part9&saved=%7CZ3JhbnVsZWlkOlVTQy1wcmVsaW0tdGl0bGU4LXNlY3Rpb24xMzUy%7C%7C%7C0%7Cfalse%7Cprelim&edition=prelim) / § 1352
 [Next >>](#)
[[Print]](#)
 [[Print selection]](#)
[[OLRC Home]](/browse.xhtml;jsessionid=6E791B1F2D19F08A5068DF0F448962F4)[Help](/navHelp.xhtml;jsessionid=6E791B1F2D19F08A5068DF0F448962F4)
8 USC 1352: Printing of reentry permits and blank forms of manifest and crew lists; sale to public
Text contains those laws in effect on April 6, 2024
From Title 8-ALIENS AND NATIONALITYCHAPTER 12-IMMIGRATION AND NATIONALITYSUBCHAPTER II-IMMIGRATIONPart IX-Miscellaneous
Jump To: [Source Credit](#sourcecredit)[Miscellaneous](#miscellaneous-note)[Change of Name](#changeofname-note)
### §1352. Printing of reentry permits and blank forms of manifest and crew lists; sale to public
(a) Reentry permits issued under section 1203 of this title shall be printed on distinctive safety paper and shall be prepared and issued under regulations prescribed by the Attorney General.
(b) The Director of the Government Publishing Office is authorized to print for sale to the public by the Superintendent of Documents, upon prepayment, copies of blank forms of manifests and crew lists and such other forms as may be prescribed and authorized by the Attorney General to be sold pursuant to the provisions of this subchapter.
([June 27, 1952, ch. 477, title II, ch. 9, §282, 66 Stat. 231](/statviewer.htm?volume=66&page=231); [Pub. L. 113–235, div. H, title I, §1301(d), Dec. 16, 2014, 128 Stat. 2537](/statviewer.htm?volume=128&page=2537).)
#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**
#### Change of Name
"Director of the Government Publishing Office" substituted for "Public Printer" in subsec. (b) on authority of section 1301(d) of Pub. L. 113–235, set out as a note under section 301 of Title 44, Public Printing and Documents.
#### Abolition of Immigration and Naturalization Service and Transfer of Functions
For abolition of Immigration and Naturalization Service, transfer of functions, and treatment of related references, see note set out under section 1551 of this title.
