xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8' ?
8 USC 1304: Forms for registration and fingerprinting
 Result 1 of 1
[Back to Original Document](/view.xhtml;jsessionid=11B2CE8516459389F234EB862E4402F2)
[<< Previous](#)
 [TITLE 8](/view.xhtml;jsessionid=11B2CE8516459389F234EB862E4402F2?req=granuleid%3AUSC-prelim-title8&saved=%7CZ3JhbnVsZWlkOlVTQy1wcmVsaW0tdGl0bGU4LXNlY3Rpb24xMzA0%7C%7C%7C0%7Cfalse%7Cprelim&edition=prelim) / [CHAPTER 12](/view.xhtml;jsessionid=11B2CE8516459389F234EB862E4402F2?req=granuleid%3AUSC-prelim-title8-chapter12&saved=%7CZ3JhbnVsZWlkOlVTQy1wcmVsaW0tdGl0bGU4LXNlY3Rpb24xMzA0%7C%7C%7C0%7Cfalse%7Cprelim&edition=prelim) / [SUBCHAPTER II](/view.xhtml;jsessionid=11B2CE8516459389F234EB862E4402F2?req=granuleid%3AUSC-prelim-title8-chapter12-subchapter2&saved=%7CZ3JhbnVsZWlkOlVTQy1wcmVsaW0tdGl0bGU4LXNlY3Rpb24xMzA0%7C%7C%7C0%7Cfalse%7Cprelim&edition=prelim) / [Part VII](/view.xhtml;jsessionid=11B2CE8516459389F234EB862E4402F2?req=granuleid%3AUSC-prelim-title8-chapter12-subchapter2-part7&saved=%7CZ3JhbnVsZWlkOlVTQy1wcmVsaW0tdGl0bGU4LXNlY3Rpb24xMzA0%7C%7C%7C0%7Cfalse%7Cprelim&edition=prelim) / § 1304
 [Next >>](#)
[[Print]](#)
 [[Print selection]](#)
[[OLRC Home]](/browse.xhtml;jsessionid=11B2CE8516459389F234EB862E4402F2)[Help](/navHelp.xhtml;jsessionid=11B2CE8516459389F234EB862E4402F2)
8 USC 1304: Forms for registration and fingerprinting
Text contains those laws in effect on April 6, 2024
From Title 8-ALIENS AND NATIONALITYCHAPTER 12-IMMIGRATION AND NATIONALITYSUBCHAPTER II-IMMIGRATIONPart VII-Registration of Aliens
Jump To: [Source Credit](#sourcecredit)[Miscellaneous](#miscellaneous-note)[References In Text](#referenceintext-note)[Amendments](#amendment-note)[Effective Date](#effectivedate-amendment-note)
### §1304. Forms for registration and fingerprinting
#### (a) Preparation; contents
The Attorney General and the Secretary of State jointly are authorized and directed to prepare forms for the registration of aliens under section 1301 of this title, and the Attorney General is authorized and directed to prepare forms for the registration and fingerprinting of aliens under section 1302 of this title. Such forms shall contain inquiries with respect to (1) the date and place of entry of the alien into the United States; (2) activities in which he has been and intends to be engaged; (3) the length of time he expects to remain in the United States; (4) the police and criminal record, if any, of such alien; and (5) such additional matters as may be prescribed.
#### (b) Confidential nature
All registration and fingerprint records made under the provisions of this subchapter shall be confidential, and shall be made available only (1) pursuant to section 1357(f)(2) of this title, and (2) to such persons or agencies as may be designated by the Attorney General.
#### (c) Information under oath
Every person required to apply for the registration of himself or another under this subchapter shall submit under oath the information required for such registration. Any person authorized under regulations issued by the Attorney General to register aliens under this subchapter shall be authorized to administer oaths for such purpose.
#### (d) Certificate of alien registration or alien receipt card
Every alien in the United States who has been registered and fingerprinted under the provisions of the Alien Registration Act, 1940, or under the provisions of this chapter shall be issued a certificate of alien registration or an alien registration receipt card in such form and manner and at such time as shall be prescribed under regulations issued by the Attorney General.
#### (e) Personal possession of registration or receipt card; penalties
Every alien, eighteen years of age and over, shall at all times carry with him and have in his personal possession any certificate of alien registration or alien registration receipt card issued to him pursuant to subsection (d). Any alien who fails to comply with the provisions of this subsection shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall upon conviction for each offense be fined not to exceed $100 or be imprisoned not more than thirty days, or both.
#### (f) Alien's social security account number
Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Attorney General is authorized to require any alien to provide the alien's social security account number for purposes of inclusion in any record of the alien maintained by the Attorney General or the Service.
([June 27, 1952, ch. 477, title II, ch. 7, §264, 66 Stat. 224](/statviewer.htm?volume=66&page=224); [Pub. L. 99–653, §10, Nov. 14, 1986, 100 Stat. 3657](/statviewer.htm?volume=100&page=3657); [Pub. L. 100–525, §8(i), Oct. 24, 1988, 102 Stat. 2617](/statviewer.htm?volume=102&page=2617); [Pub. L. 101–649, title V, §503(b)(2), Nov. 29, 1990, 104 Stat. 5049](/statviewer.htm?volume=104&page=5049); [Pub. L. 104–208, div. C, title IV, §415, Sept. 30, 1996, 110 Stat. 3009–669](/statviewer.htm?volume=110&page=3009-669).)
#### **Editorial Notes**
#### References in Text
The Alien Registration Act, 1940, referred to in subsec. (d), is act [June 28, 1940, ch. 439, 54 Stat. 670](/statviewer.htm?volume=54&page=670). Title III of that act, which related to register and fingerprinting of aliens, was classified to sections 451 to 460 of this title, was repealed by section 403(a)(39) of act June 27, 1952.
This chapter, referred to in subsec. (d), was in the original, "this Act", meaning act [June 27, 1952, ch. 477, 66 Stat. 163](/statviewer.htm?volume=66&page=163), known as the Immigration and Nationality Act, which is classified principally to this chapter. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 1101 of this title and Tables.
#### Amendments
**1996**-Subsec. (f). Pub. L. 104–208 added subsec. (f).
**1990**-Subsec. (b). Pub. L. 101–649 inserted "(1) pursuant to section 1357(f)(2) of this title, and (2)" after "only".
**1988**-Subsec. (a). Pub. L. 100–525 amended Pub. L. 99–653. See 1986 Amendment note below.
**1986**-Subsec. (a). Pub. L. 99–653, as amended by Pub. L. 100–525, amended first sentence generally, striking out "and fingerprinting" before "of aliens under section 1301".
#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**
#### Effective Date of 1988 Amendment
Amendment by Pub. L. 100–525 effective as if included in the enactment of the Immigration and Nationality Act Amendments of 1986, Pub. L. 99–653, see section 309(b)(15) of Pub. L. 102–232, set out as an Effective and Termination Dates of 1988 Amendments note under section 1101 of this title.
#### Effective Date of 1986 Amendment
Amendment by Pub. L. 99–653 applicable to applications for immigrant visas made, and visas issued, on or after Nov. 14, 1986, see section 23(b) of Pub. L. 99–653, set out as a note under section 1201 of this title.
#### Abolition of Immigration and Naturalization Service and Transfer of Functions
For abolition of Immigration and Naturalization Service, transfer of functions, and treatment of related references, see note set out under section 1551 of this title.
