xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8' ?
8 USC 1203: Reentry permit
 Result 1 of 1
 
  
  Current
2018 Ed. and Supplement IV (1/5/2023)
2018 Ed. and Supplement III (1/3/2022)
2018 Ed. and Supplement II (1/13/2021)
2018 Ed. and Supplement I (1/24/2020)
2018 Main Ed. (1/14/2019)
2012 Ed. and Supplement V (1/12/2018)
2012 Ed. and Supplement IV (1/6/2017)
2012 Ed. and Supplement III (1/3/2016)
2012 Ed. and Supplement II (1/5/2015)
2012 Ed. and Supplement I (1/16/2014)
2012 Main Ed. (1/15/2013)
2006 Ed. and Supplement V (1/3/2012)
2006 Ed. and Supplement IV (1/7/2011)
2006 Ed. and Supplement III (2/1/2010)
2006 Ed. and Supplement II (1/5/2009)
2006 Ed. and Supplement I (1/8/2008)
2006 Main Ed. (1/3/2007)
2000 Ed. and Supplement V (1/2/2006)
2000 Ed. and Supplement IV (1/3/2005)
2000 Ed. and Supplement III (1/19/2004)
2000 Ed. and Supplement II (1/6/2003)
2000 Ed. and Supplement I (1/22/2002)
2000 Main Ed. (1/2/2001)
1994 Ed. and Supplement V (1/23/2000)
1994 Ed. and Supplement IV (1/5/1999)
1994 Ed. and Supplement III (1/26/1998)
1994 Ed. and Supplement II (1/6/1997)
1994 Ed. and Supplement I (1/16/1996)
1994 Main Ed. (1/4/1995)
  
 
  
[Back to Original Document](/view.xhtml;jsessionid=CF76BD3FE5BFE1B0BAC7F685B5B4CBC2)
 
[<< Previous](#)
  
 [TITLE 8](/view.xhtml;jsessionid=CF76BD3FE5BFE1B0BAC7F685B5B4CBC2?req=granuleid%3AUSC-prelim-title8&saved=%7CZ3JhbnVsZWlkOlVTQy1wcmVsaW0tdGl0bGU4LXNlY3Rpb24xMjAz%7C%7C%7C0%7Cfalse%7Cprelim&edition=prelim) / [CHAPTER 12](/view.xhtml;jsessionid=CF76BD3FE5BFE1B0BAC7F685B5B4CBC2?req=granuleid%3AUSC-prelim-title8-chapter12&saved=%7CZ3JhbnVsZWlkOlVTQy1wcmVsaW0tdGl0bGU4LXNlY3Rpb24xMjAz%7C%7C%7C0%7Cfalse%7Cprelim&edition=prelim) / [SUBCHAPTER II](/view.xhtml;jsessionid=CF76BD3FE5BFE1B0BAC7F685B5B4CBC2?req=granuleid%3AUSC-prelim-title8-chapter12-subchapter2&saved=%7CZ3JhbnVsZWlkOlVTQy1wcmVsaW0tdGl0bGU4LXNlY3Rpb24xMjAz%7C%7C%7C0%7Cfalse%7Cprelim&edition=prelim) / [Part III](/view.xhtml;jsessionid=CF76BD3FE5BFE1B0BAC7F685B5B4CBC2?req=granuleid%3AUSC-prelim-title8-chapter12-subchapter2-part3&saved=%7CZ3JhbnVsZWlkOlVTQy1wcmVsaW0tdGl0bGU4LXNlY3Rpb24xMjAz%7C%7C%7C0%7Cfalse%7Cprelim&edition=prelim) / § 1203
  
 [Next >>](#)
[[Print]](#)
   
 [[Print selection]](#)
[[OLRC Home]](/browse.xhtml;jsessionid=CF76BD3FE5BFE1B0BAC7F685B5B4CBC2)[Help](/navHelp.xhtml;jsessionid=CF76BD3FE5BFE1B0BAC7F685B5B4CBC2)
 
8 USC 1203: Reentry permit
Text contains those laws in effect on April 6, 2024
From Title 8-ALIENS AND NATIONALITYCHAPTER 12-IMMIGRATION AND NATIONALITYSUBCHAPTER II-IMMIGRATIONPart III-Issuance of Entry Documents
Jump To: [Source Credit](#sourcecredit)[Miscellaneous](#miscellaneous-note)[References In Text](#referenceintext-note)[Amendments](#amendment-note)[Effective Date](#effectivedate-amendment-note)
### §1203. Reentry permit
#### (a) Application; contents
(1) Any alien lawfully admitted for permanent residence, or (2) any alien lawfully admitted to the United States pursuant to clause 6 of section 3 of the Immigration Act of 1924, between July 1, 1924, and July 5, 1932, both dates inclusive, who intends to depart temporarily from the United States may make application to the Attorney General for a permit to reenter the United States, stating the length of his intended absence or absences, and the reasons therefor. Such applications shall be made under oath, and shall be in such form, contain such information, and be accompanied by such photographs of the applicant as may be by regulations prescribed.
#### (b) Issuance of permit; nonrenewability
If the Attorney General finds (1) that the applicant under subsection (a)(1) has been lawfully admitted to the United States for permanent residence, or that the applicant under subsection (a)(2) has since admission maintained the status required of him at the time of his admission and such applicant desires to visit abroad and to return to the United States to resume the status existing at the time of his departure for such visit, (2) that the application is made in good faith, and (3) that the alien's proposed departure from the United States would not be contrary to the interests of the United States, the Attorney General may, in his discretion, issue the permit, which shall be valid for not more than two years from the date of issuance and shall not be renewable. The permit shall be in such form as shall be by regulations prescribed for the complete identification of the alien.
#### (c) Multiple reentries
During the period of validity, such permit may be used by the alien in making one or more applications for reentry into the United States.
#### (d) Presented and surrendered
Upon the return of the alien to the United States the permit shall be presented to the immigration officer at the port of entry, and upon the expiration of its validity, the permit shall be surrendered to the Service.
#### (e) Permit in lieu of visa
A permit issued under this section in the possession of the person to whom issued, shall be accepted in lieu of any visa which otherwise would be required from such person under this chapter. Otherwise a permit issued under this section shall have no effect under the immigration laws except to show that the alien to whom it was issued is returning from a temporary visit abroad; but nothing in this section shall be construed as making such permit the exclusive means of establishing that the alien is so returning.
([June 27, 1952, ch. 477, title II, ch. 3, §223, 66 Stat. 194](/statviewer.htm?volume=66&page=194); [Pub. L. 97–116, §6, Dec. 29, 1981, 95 Stat. 1615](/statviewer.htm?volume=95&page=1615).)
  
#### **Editorial Notes**
#### References in Text
Clause (6) of section 3 of the Immigration Act of 1924, referred to in subsec. (a), which was classified to section 203(6) of this title, was repealed by section 403(a)(2) of act June 27, 1952. See section 1101(a)(15)(E) of this title.
This chapter, referred to in subsec. (e), was in the original, "this Act", meaning act [June 27, 1952, ch. 477, 66 Stat. 163](/statviewer.htm?volume=66&page=163), known as the Immigration and Nationality Act, which is classified principally to this chapter. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 1101 of this title and Tables.
#### Amendments
**1981**-Subsec. (b). Pub. L. 97–116 substituted "two years from the date of issuance and shall not be renewable" for "one year from the date of issuance: *Provided*, That the Attorney General may in his discretion extend the validity of the permit for a period or periods not exceeding one year in the aggregate".
  
#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**
#### Effective Date of 1981 Amendment
Amendment by Pub. L. 97–116 effective Dec. 29, 1981, see section 21(a) of Pub. L. 97–116, set out as a note under section 1101 of this title.
#### Abolition of Immigration and Naturalization Service and Transfer of Functions
For abolition of Immigration and Naturalization Service, transfer of functions, and treatment of related references, see note set out under section 1551 of this title.
