xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8' ?
8 USC 1458: Compilation of naturalization statistics and payment for equipment
 Result 1 of 1
[Back to Original Document](/view.xhtml;jsessionid=AF7B2881BEC2D8D6AB8C346ADC68BF11)
[<< Previous](#)
 [TITLE 8](/view.xhtml;jsessionid=AF7B2881BEC2D8D6AB8C346ADC68BF11?req=granuleid%3AUSC-prelim-title8&saved=%7CZ3JhbnVsZWlkOlVTQy1wcmVsaW0tdGl0bGU4LXNlY3Rpb24xNDU4%7C%7C%7C0%7Cfalse%7Cprelim&edition=prelim) / [CHAPTER 12](/view.xhtml;jsessionid=AF7B2881BEC2D8D6AB8C346ADC68BF11?req=granuleid%3AUSC-prelim-title8-chapter12&saved=%7CZ3JhbnVsZWlkOlVTQy1wcmVsaW0tdGl0bGU4LXNlY3Rpb24xNDU4%7C%7C%7C0%7Cfalse%7Cprelim&edition=prelim) / [SUBCHAPTER III](/view.xhtml;jsessionid=AF7B2881BEC2D8D6AB8C346ADC68BF11?req=granuleid%3AUSC-prelim-title8-chapter12-subchapter3&saved=%7CZ3JhbnVsZWlkOlVTQy1wcmVsaW0tdGl0bGU4LXNlY3Rpb24xNDU4%7C%7C%7C0%7Cfalse%7Cprelim&edition=prelim) / [Part II](/view.xhtml;jsessionid=AF7B2881BEC2D8D6AB8C346ADC68BF11?req=granuleid%3AUSC-prelim-title8-chapter12-subchapter3-part2&saved=%7CZ3JhbnVsZWlkOlVTQy1wcmVsaW0tdGl0bGU4LXNlY3Rpb24xNDU4%7C%7C%7C0%7Cfalse%7Cprelim&edition=prelim) / ยง 1458
 [Next >>](#)
[[Print]](#)
 [[Print selection]](#)
[[OLRC Home]](/browse.xhtml;jsessionid=AF7B2881BEC2D8D6AB8C346ADC68BF11)[Help](/navHelp.xhtml;jsessionid=AF7B2881BEC2D8D6AB8C346ADC68BF11)
8 USC 1458: Compilation of naturalization statistics and payment for equipment
Text contains those laws in effect on April 6, 2024
From Title 8-ALIENS AND NATIONALITYCHAPTER 12-IMMIGRATION AND NATIONALITYSUBCHAPTER III-NATIONALITY AND NATURALIZATIONPart II-Nationality Through Naturalization
Jump To: [Source Credit](#sourcecredit)[Miscellaneous](#miscellaneous-note)[References In Text](#referenceintext-note)[Effective Date](#effectivedate-note)
### ยง1458. Compilation of naturalization statistics and payment for equipment
The Attorney General is authorized and directed to prepare from the records in the custody of the Service a report upon those heretofore seeking citizenship to show by nationalities their relation to the numbers of aliens annually arriving and to the prevailing census populations of the foreign-born, their economic, vocational, and other classification, in statistical form, with analytical comment thereon, and to prepare such report annually hereafter. Payment for the equipment used in preparing such compilation shall be made from the appropriation for the enforcement of this chapter by the Service.
([June 27, 1952, ch. 477, title III, ch. 2, ยง347, 66 Stat. 266](/statviewer.htm?volume=66&page=266).)
#### **Editorial Notes**
#### References in Text
This chapter, referred to in text, was in the original, "this Act", meaning act [June 27, 1952, ch. 477, 66 Stat. 163](/statviewer.htm?volume=66&page=163), known as the Immigration and Nationality Act, which is classified principally to this chapter. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 1101 of this title and Tables.
#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**
#### Effective Date
Section effective 180 days after June 27, 1952, see section 407 of act June 27, 1952, set out as a note under section 1101 of this title.
#### Abolition of Immigration and Naturalization Service and Transfer of Functions
For abolition of Immigration and Naturalization Service, transfer of functions, and treatment of related references, see note set out under section 1551 of this title.
