xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8' ?
8 USC 1449: Certificate of naturalization; contents
 Result 1 of 1
[Back to Original Document](/view.xhtml;jsessionid=F928F5BB0621C5A56DB52E668597F42F)
[<< Previous](#)
 [TITLE 8](/view.xhtml;jsessionid=F928F5BB0621C5A56DB52E668597F42F?req=granuleid%3AUSC-prelim-title8&saved=%7CZ3JhbnVsZWlkOlVTQy1wcmVsaW0tdGl0bGU4LXNlY3Rpb24xNDQ5%7C%7C%7C0%7Cfalse%7Cprelim&edition=prelim) / [CHAPTER 12](/view.xhtml;jsessionid=F928F5BB0621C5A56DB52E668597F42F?req=granuleid%3AUSC-prelim-title8-chapter12&saved=%7CZ3JhbnVsZWlkOlVTQy1wcmVsaW0tdGl0bGU4LXNlY3Rpb24xNDQ5%7C%7C%7C0%7Cfalse%7Cprelim&edition=prelim) / [SUBCHAPTER III](/view.xhtml;jsessionid=F928F5BB0621C5A56DB52E668597F42F?req=granuleid%3AUSC-prelim-title8-chapter12-subchapter3&saved=%7CZ3JhbnVsZWlkOlVTQy1wcmVsaW0tdGl0bGU4LXNlY3Rpb24xNDQ5%7C%7C%7C0%7Cfalse%7Cprelim&edition=prelim) / [Part II](/view.xhtml;jsessionid=F928F5BB0621C5A56DB52E668597F42F?req=granuleid%3AUSC-prelim-title8-chapter12-subchapter3-part2&saved=%7CZ3JhbnVsZWlkOlVTQy1wcmVsaW0tdGl0bGU4LXNlY3Rpb24xNDQ5%7C%7C%7C0%7Cfalse%7Cprelim&edition=prelim) / § 1449
 [Next >>](#)
[[Print]](#)
 [[Print selection]](#)
[[OLRC Home]](/browse.xhtml;jsessionid=F928F5BB0621C5A56DB52E668597F42F)[Help](/navHelp.xhtml;jsessionid=F928F5BB0621C5A56DB52E668597F42F)
8 USC 1449: Certificate of naturalization; contents
Text contains those laws in effect on April 6, 2024
From Title 8-ALIENS AND NATIONALITYCHAPTER 12-IMMIGRATION AND NATIONALITYSUBCHAPTER III-NATIONALITY AND NATURALIZATIONPart II-Nationality Through Naturalization
Jump To: [Source Credit](#sourcecredit)[Miscellaneous](#miscellaneous-note)[Amendments](#amendment-note)[Effective Date](#effectivedate-amendment-note)
### §1449. Certificate of naturalization; contents
A person admitted to citizenship in conformity with the provisions of this subchapter shall be entitled upon such admission to receive from the Attorney General a certificate of naturalization, which shall contain substantially the following information: Number of application for naturalization; number of certificate of naturalization; date of naturalization; name, signature, place of residence, autographed photograph, and personal description of the naturalized person, including age, sex, marital status, and country of former nationality; location of the district office of the Service in which the application was filed and the title, authority, and location of the official or court administering the oath of allegiance; statement that the Attorney General, having found that the applicant had complied in all respects with all of the applicable provisions of the naturalization laws of the United States, and was entitled to be admitted a citizen of the United States of America, thereupon ordered that the applicant be admitted as a citizen of the United States of America; attestation of an immigration officer; and the seal of the Department of Justice.
([June 27, 1952, ch. 477, title III, ch. 2, §338, 66 Stat. 259](/statviewer.htm?volume=66&page=259); [Pub. L. 101–649, title IV, §407(c)(19), (d)(16), Nov. 29, 1990, 104 Stat. 5041](/statviewer.htm?volume=104&page=5041), [5045](/statviewer.htm?volume=104&page=5045); [Pub. L. 102–232, title III, §305(j), Dec. 12, 1991, 105 Stat. 1750](/statviewer.htm?volume=105&page=1750); [Pub. L. 103–416, title I, §104(a), title II, §219(z)(3), Oct. 25, 1994, 108 Stat. 4308](/statviewer.htm?volume=108&page=4308), [4318](/statviewer.htm?volume=108&page=4318).)
#### **Editorial Notes**
#### Amendments
**1994**-Pub. L. 103–416, §219(z)(3), repealed Pub. L. 102–232, §305(j)(1). See 1991 Amendment note below.
Pub. L. 103–416, §104(a), struck out "intends to reside permanently in the United States, except in cases falling within the provisions of section 1435(a) of this title," before "had complied in".
**1991**-Pub. L. 102–232, §305(j)(2), substituted "district" for "District" before "office of the Service".
Pub. L. 102–232, §305(j)(1), which made a technical correction to Pub. L. 101–649, §407(d)(16)(C), which was unnecessary because the language sought to be corrected was already correct in Pub. L. 101–649 (see 1990 Amendment note below) was repealed by Pub. L. 103–416, §219(z)(3). See Construction of 1994 Amendment note below.
**1990**-Pub. L. 101–649 substituted "application" for "petition" and "applicant" for "petitioner" in two places, struck out "by a naturalization court" after "citizenship", and substituted "the Attorney General" for "the clerk of such court", "location of the District office of the Service in which the application was filed and the title, authority, and location of the official or court administering the oath of allegiance" for "title, venue, and location of the naturalization court", "the Attorney General" for "the court", and "of an immigration officer; and the seal of the Department of Justice" for "of the clerk of the naturalization court; and seal of the court".
#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**
#### Effective Date of 1994 Amendment
[Pub. L. 103–416, title I, §104(e), Oct. 25, 1994, 108 Stat. 4308](/statviewer.htm?volume=108&page=4308), provided that: "The amendment made by subsection (a) [amending this section] shall apply to persons admitted to citizenship on or after the date of enactment of this Act [Oct. 25, 1994]."
[Pub. L. 103–416, title II, §219(z), Oct. 25, 1994, 108 Stat. 4318](/statviewer.htm?volume=108&page=4318), provided that the amendment made by section 219(z)(3) is effective as if included in the Miscellaneous and Technical Immigration and Naturalization Amendments of 1991, Pub. L. 102–232.
#### Effective Date of 1991 Amendment
Amendment by Pub. L. 102–232 effective as if included in the enactment of the Immigration Act of 1990, Pub. L. 101–649, see section 310(1) of Pub. L. 102–232, set out as a note under section 1101 of this title.
#### Construction of 1994 Amendment
[Pub. L. 103–416, title II, §219(z)(3), Oct. 25, 1994, 108 Stat. 4318](/statviewer.htm?volume=108&page=4318), provided that: "paragraph (1) of section 305(j) of such Act [Pub. L. 102–232, amending section 407(d)(16)(C) of Pub. L. 101–649] is repealed (and section 407(d)(16)(C) of the Immigration Act of 1990 [Pub. L. 101–649, amending this section] shall read as if such paragraph had not been enacted)".
#### Abolition of Immigration and Naturalization Service and Transfer of Functions
For abolition of Immigration and Naturalization Service, transfer of functions, and treatment of related references, see note set out under section 1551 of this title.
