xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8' ?
8 USC 1329: Jurisdiction of district courts
 Result 1 of 1
[Back to Original Document](/view.xhtml;jsessionid=24DCADBED6B5046BA1F3F581722BE30E)
[<< Previous](#)
 [TITLE 8](/view.xhtml;jsessionid=24DCADBED6B5046BA1F3F581722BE30E?req=granuleid%3AUSC-prelim-title8&saved=%7CZ3JhbnVsZWlkOlVTQy1wcmVsaW0tdGl0bGU4LXNlY3Rpb24xMzI5%7C%7C%7C0%7Cfalse%7Cprelim&edition=prelim) / [CHAPTER 12](/view.xhtml;jsessionid=24DCADBED6B5046BA1F3F581722BE30E?req=granuleid%3AUSC-prelim-title8-chapter12&saved=%7CZ3JhbnVsZWlkOlVTQy1wcmVsaW0tdGl0bGU4LXNlY3Rpb24xMzI5%7C%7C%7C0%7Cfalse%7Cprelim&edition=prelim) / [SUBCHAPTER II](/view.xhtml;jsessionid=24DCADBED6B5046BA1F3F581722BE30E?req=granuleid%3AUSC-prelim-title8-chapter12-subchapter2&saved=%7CZ3JhbnVsZWlkOlVTQy1wcmVsaW0tdGl0bGU4LXNlY3Rpb24xMzI5%7C%7C%7C0%7Cfalse%7Cprelim&edition=prelim) / [Part VIII](/view.xhtml;jsessionid=24DCADBED6B5046BA1F3F581722BE30E?req=granuleid%3AUSC-prelim-title8-chapter12-subchapter2-part8&saved=%7CZ3JhbnVsZWlkOlVTQy1wcmVsaW0tdGl0bGU4LXNlY3Rpb24xMzI5%7C%7C%7C0%7Cfalse%7Cprelim&edition=prelim) / § 1329
 [Next >>](#)
[[Print]](#)
 [[Print selection]](#)
[[OLRC Home]](/browse.xhtml;jsessionid=24DCADBED6B5046BA1F3F581722BE30E)[Help](/navHelp.xhtml;jsessionid=24DCADBED6B5046BA1F3F581722BE30E)
8 USC 1329: Jurisdiction of district courts
Text contains those laws in effect on April 6, 2024
From Title 8-ALIENS AND NATIONALITYCHAPTER 12-IMMIGRATION AND NATIONALITYSUBCHAPTER II-IMMIGRATIONPart VIII-General Penalty Provisions
Jump To: [Source Credit](#sourcecredit)[Miscellaneous](#miscellaneous-note)[Amendments](#amendment-note)[Effective Date](#effectivedate-amendment-note)
### §1329. Jurisdiction of district courts
The district courts of the United States shall have jurisdiction of all causes, civil and criminal, brought by the United States that arise under the provisions of this subchapter. It shall be the duty of the United States attorney of the proper district to prosecute every such suit when brought by the United States. Notwithstanding any other law, such prosecutions or suits may be instituted at any place in the United States at which the violation may occur or at which the person charged with a violation under section 1325 or 1326 of this title may be apprehended. No suit or proceeding for a violation of any of the provisions of this subchapter shall be settled, compromised, or discontinued without the consent of the court in which it is pending and any such settlement, compromise, or discontinuance shall be entered of record with the reasons therefor. Nothing in this section shall be construed as providing jurisdiction for suits against the United States or its agencies or officers.
([June 27, 1952, ch. 477, title II, ch. 8, §279, 66 Stat. 230](/statviewer.htm?volume=66&page=230); [Pub. L. 104–208, div. C, title III, §381(a), Sept. 30, 1996, 110 Stat. 3009–650](/statviewer.htm?volume=110&page=3009-650).)
#### **Editorial Notes**
#### Amendments
**1996**-Pub. L. 104–208, §381(a)(2), inserted at end "Nothing in this section shall be construed as providing jurisdiction for suits against the United States or its agencies or officers."
Pub. L. 104–208, §381(a)(1), amended first sentence generally. Prior to amendment, first sentence read as follows: "The district courts of the United States shall have jurisdiction of all causes, civil and criminal, arising under any of the provisions of this subchapter."
#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**
#### Effective Date of 1996 Amendment
[Pub. L. 104–208, div. C, title III, §381(b), Sept. 30, 1996, 110 Stat. 3009–650](/statviewer.htm?volume=110&page=3009-650), provided that: "The amendments made by subsection (a) [amending this section] shall apply to actions filed after the date of the enactment of this Act [Sept. 30, 1996]."
