xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8' ?
8 USC 1403: Persons born in the Canal Zone or Republic of Panama on or after February 26, 1904
 Result 1 of 1
[Back to Original Document](/view.xhtml;jsessionid=6BB0382863EC116873730FDF310AA07C)
[<< Previous](#)
 [TITLE 8](/view.xhtml;jsessionid=6BB0382863EC116873730FDF310AA07C?req=granuleid%3AUSC-prelim-title8&saved=%7CZ3JhbnVsZWlkOlVTQy1wcmVsaW0tdGl0bGU4LXNlY3Rpb24xNDAz%7C%7C%7C0%7Cfalse%7Cprelim&edition=prelim) / [CHAPTER 12](/view.xhtml;jsessionid=6BB0382863EC116873730FDF310AA07C?req=granuleid%3AUSC-prelim-title8-chapter12&saved=%7CZ3JhbnVsZWlkOlVTQy1wcmVsaW0tdGl0bGU4LXNlY3Rpb24xNDAz%7C%7C%7C0%7Cfalse%7Cprelim&edition=prelim) / [SUBCHAPTER III](/view.xhtml;jsessionid=6BB0382863EC116873730FDF310AA07C?req=granuleid%3AUSC-prelim-title8-chapter12-subchapter3&saved=%7CZ3JhbnVsZWlkOlVTQy1wcmVsaW0tdGl0bGU4LXNlY3Rpb24xNDAz%7C%7C%7C0%7Cfalse%7Cprelim&edition=prelim) / [Part I](/view.xhtml;jsessionid=6BB0382863EC116873730FDF310AA07C?req=granuleid%3AUSC-prelim-title8-chapter12-subchapter3-part1&saved=%7CZ3JhbnVsZWlkOlVTQy1wcmVsaW0tdGl0bGU4LXNlY3Rpb24xNDAz%7C%7C%7C0%7Cfalse%7Cprelim&edition=prelim) / ยง 1403
 [Next >>](#)
[[Print]](#)
 [[Print selection]](#)
[[OLRC Home]](/browse.xhtml;jsessionid=6BB0382863EC116873730FDF310AA07C)[Help](/navHelp.xhtml;jsessionid=6BB0382863EC116873730FDF310AA07C)
8 USC 1403: Persons born in the Canal Zone or Republic of Panama on or after February 26, 1904
Text contains those laws in effect on April 6, 2024
From Title 8-ALIENS AND NATIONALITYCHAPTER 12-IMMIGRATION AND NATIONALITYSUBCHAPTER III-NATIONALITY AND NATURALIZATIONPart I-Nationality at Birth and Collective Naturalization
Jump To: [Source Credit](#sourcecredit)[Miscellaneous](#miscellaneous-note)[References In Text](#referenceintext-note)[Change of Name](#changeofname-note)
### ยง1403. Persons born in the Canal Zone or Republic of Panama on or after February 26, 1904
(a) Any person born in the Canal Zone on or after February 26, 1904, and whether before or after the effective date of this chapter, whose father or mother or both at the time of the birth of such person was or is a citizen of the United States, is declared to be a citizen of the United States.
(b) Any person born in the Republic of Panama on or after February 26, 1904, and whether before or after the effective date of this chapter, whose father or mother or both at the time of the birth of such person was or is a citizen of the United States employed by the Government of the United States or by the Panama Railroad Company, or its successor in title, is declared to be a citizen of the United States.
([June 27, 1952, ch. 477, title III, ch. 1, ยง303, 66 Stat. 236](/statviewer.htm?volume=66&page=236).)
#### **Editorial Notes**
#### References in Text
For definition of Canal Zone, referred to in text, see section 3602(b) of Title 22, Foreign Relations and Intercourse.
The effective date of this chapter, referred to in text, is the 180th day immediately following June 27, 1952. See section 407 of act June 27, 1952, set out as an Effective Date note under section 1101 of this title.
#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**
#### Change of Name
Panama Railroad Company redesignated Panama Canal Company by act [Sept. 26, 1950, ch. 1049, ยง2(a)(2), 64 Stat. 1038](/statviewer.htm?volume=64&page=1038). References to Panama Canal Company in laws of the United States are deemed to refer to Panama Canal Commission pursuant to section 3602(b)(5) of Title 22, Foreign Relations and Intercourse.
