xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8' ?
8 USC 1305: Notices of change of address
 Result 1 of 1
[Back to Original Document](/view.xhtml;jsessionid=39BB9424CAECBDC901DEE36674AFBAE6)
[<< Previous](#)
 [TITLE 8](/view.xhtml;jsessionid=39BB9424CAECBDC901DEE36674AFBAE6?req=granuleid%3AUSC-prelim-title8&saved=%7CZ3JhbnVsZWlkOlVTQy1wcmVsaW0tdGl0bGU4LXNlY3Rpb24xMzA1%7C%7C%7C0%7Cfalse%7Cprelim&edition=prelim) / [CHAPTER 12](/view.xhtml;jsessionid=39BB9424CAECBDC901DEE36674AFBAE6?req=granuleid%3AUSC-prelim-title8-chapter12&saved=%7CZ3JhbnVsZWlkOlVTQy1wcmVsaW0tdGl0bGU4LXNlY3Rpb24xMzA1%7C%7C%7C0%7Cfalse%7Cprelim&edition=prelim) / [SUBCHAPTER II](/view.xhtml;jsessionid=39BB9424CAECBDC901DEE36674AFBAE6?req=granuleid%3AUSC-prelim-title8-chapter12-subchapter2&saved=%7CZ3JhbnVsZWlkOlVTQy1wcmVsaW0tdGl0bGU4LXNlY3Rpb24xMzA1%7C%7C%7C0%7Cfalse%7Cprelim&edition=prelim) / [Part VII](/view.xhtml;jsessionid=39BB9424CAECBDC901DEE36674AFBAE6?req=granuleid%3AUSC-prelim-title8-chapter12-subchapter2-part7&saved=%7CZ3JhbnVsZWlkOlVTQy1wcmVsaW0tdGl0bGU4LXNlY3Rpb24xMzA1%7C%7C%7C0%7Cfalse%7Cprelim&edition=prelim) / § 1305
 [Next >>](#)
[[Print]](#)
 [[Print selection]](#)
[[OLRC Home]](/browse.xhtml;jsessionid=39BB9424CAECBDC901DEE36674AFBAE6)[Help](/navHelp.xhtml;jsessionid=39BB9424CAECBDC901DEE36674AFBAE6)
8 USC 1305: Notices of change of address
Text contains those laws in effect on April 6, 2024
From Title 8-ALIENS AND NATIONALITYCHAPTER 12-IMMIGRATION AND NATIONALITYSUBCHAPTER II-IMMIGRATIONPart VII-Registration of Aliens
Jump To: [Source Credit](#sourcecredit)[Miscellaneous](#miscellaneous-note)[Amendments](#amendment-note)[Effective Date](#effectivedate-amendment-note)
### §1305. Notices of change of address
#### (a) Notification of change
Each alien required to be registered under this subchapter who is within the United States shall notify the Attorney General in writing of each change of address and new address within ten days from the date of such change and furnish with such notice such additional information as the Attorney General may require by regulation.
#### (b) Current address of natives of any one or more foreign states
The Attorney General may in his discretion, upon ten days notice, require the natives of any one or more foreign states, or any class or group thereof, who are within the United States and who are required to be registered under this subchapter, to notify the Attorney General of their current addresses and furnish such additional information as the Attorney General may require.
#### (c) Notice to parent or legal guardian
In the case of an alien for whom a parent or legal guardian is required to apply for registration, the notice required by this section shall be given to such parent or legal guardian.
([June 27, 1952, ch. 477, title II, ch. 7, §265, 66 Stat. 225](/statviewer.htm?volume=66&page=225); [Pub. L. 97–116, §11, Dec. 29, 1981, 95 Stat. 1617](/statviewer.htm?volume=95&page=1617); [Pub. L. 100–525, §9(o), Oct. 24, 1988, 102 Stat. 2620](/statviewer.htm?volume=102&page=2620).)
#### **Editorial Notes**
#### Amendments
**1988**-Pub. L. 100–525 inserted "Notices of change of address" as section catchline.
**1981**-Pub. L. 97–116 amended section generally and in adding subsection designations struck out the annual registration requirement for permanent resident aliens and the registration requirement for those aliens in a lawful temporary residence who were to notify the Attorney General in writing of an address every three months while residing in the United States and inserted provision authorizing the Attorney General, in his discretion and upon ten days notice, to require the natives of any one or more foreign states who are in the United States and required to be registered under this subchapter, to notify the Attorney General of their current addresses and furnish such additional information as required.
#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**
#### Effective Date of 1981 Amendment
Amendment by Pub. L. 97–116 effective Dec. 29, 1981, see section 21(a) of Pub. L. 97–116, set out as a note under section 1101 of this title.
#### Abolition of Immigration and Naturalization Service and Transfer of Functions
For abolition of Immigration and Naturalization Service, transfer of functions, and treatment of related references, see note set out under section 1551 of this title.
