xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8' ?
8 USC 1363: Deposit of and interest on cash received to secure immigration bonds
 Result 1 of 1
[Back to Original Document](/view.xhtml;jsessionid=2A5CE6A90C7DCAA8B70C382B66733229)
[<< Previous](#)
 [TITLE 8](/view.xhtml;jsessionid=2A5CE6A90C7DCAA8B70C382B66733229?req=granuleid%3AUSC-prelim-title8&saved=%7CZ3JhbnVsZWlkOlVTQy1wcmVsaW0tdGl0bGU4LXNlY3Rpb24xMzYz%7C%7C%7C0%7Cfalse%7Cprelim&edition=prelim) / [CHAPTER 12](/view.xhtml;jsessionid=2A5CE6A90C7DCAA8B70C382B66733229?req=granuleid%3AUSC-prelim-title8-chapter12&saved=%7CZ3JhbnVsZWlkOlVTQy1wcmVsaW0tdGl0bGU4LXNlY3Rpb24xMzYz%7C%7C%7C0%7Cfalse%7Cprelim&edition=prelim) / [SUBCHAPTER II](/view.xhtml;jsessionid=2A5CE6A90C7DCAA8B70C382B66733229?req=granuleid%3AUSC-prelim-title8-chapter12-subchapter2&saved=%7CZ3JhbnVsZWlkOlVTQy1wcmVsaW0tdGl0bGU4LXNlY3Rpb24xMzYz%7C%7C%7C0%7Cfalse%7Cprelim&edition=prelim) / [Part IX](/view.xhtml;jsessionid=2A5CE6A90C7DCAA8B70C382B66733229?req=granuleid%3AUSC-prelim-title8-chapter12-subchapter2-part9&saved=%7CZ3JhbnVsZWlkOlVTQy1wcmVsaW0tdGl0bGU4LXNlY3Rpb24xMzYz%7C%7C%7C0%7Cfalse%7Cprelim&edition=prelim) / § 1363
 [Next >>](#)
[[Print]](#)
 [[Print selection]](#)
[[OLRC Home]](/browse.xhtml;jsessionid=2A5CE6A90C7DCAA8B70C382B66733229)[Help](/navHelp.xhtml;jsessionid=2A5CE6A90C7DCAA8B70C382B66733229)
8 USC 1363: Deposit of and interest on cash received to secure immigration bonds
Text contains those laws in effect on April 6, 2024
From Title 8-ALIENS AND NATIONALITYCHAPTER 12-IMMIGRATION AND NATIONALITYSUBCHAPTER II-IMMIGRATIONPart IX-Miscellaneous
Jump To: [Source Credit](#sourcecredit)[Miscellaneous](#miscellaneous-note)
### §1363. Deposit of and interest on cash received to secure immigration bonds
(a) Cash received by the Attorney General as security on an immigration bond shall be deposited in the Treasury of the United States in trust for the obligor on the bond, and shall bear interest payable at a rate determined by the Secretary of the Treasury, except that in no case shall the interest rate exceed 3 per centum per annum. Such interest shall accrue from date of deposit occurring after April 27, 1966, to and including date of withdrawal or date of breach of the immigration bond, whichever occurs first: *Provided,* That cash received by the Attorney General as security on an immigration bond, and deposited by him in the postal savings system prior to discontinuance of the system, shall accrue interest as provided in this section from the date such cash ceased to accrue interest under the system. Appropriations to the Treasury Department for interest on uninvested funds shall be available for payment of said interest.
(b) The interest accruing on cash received by the Attorney General as security on an immigration bond shall be subject to the same disposition as prescribed for the principal cash, except that interest accruing to the date of breach of the immigration bond shall be paid to the obligor on the bond.
(June 27, 1952, ch. 477, title II, ch. 9, §293, as added [Pub. L. 91–313, §2, July 10, 1970, 84 Stat. 413](/statviewer.htm?volume=84&page=413).)
#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**
#### Abolition of Immigration and Naturalization Service and Transfer of Functions
For abolition of Immigration and Naturalization Service, transfer of functions, and treatment of related references, see note set out under section 1551 of this title.
