xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8' ?
8 USC 1287: Alien crewmen brought into the United States with intent to evade immigration laws; penalties
 Result 1 of 1
[Back to Original Document](/view.xhtml;jsessionid=B94BB414E3B630B9977148AD7896F346)
[<< Previous](#)
 [TITLE 8](/view.xhtml;jsessionid=B94BB414E3B630B9977148AD7896F346?req=granuleid%3AUSC-prelim-title8&saved=%7CZ3JhbnVsZWlkOlVTQy1wcmVsaW0tdGl0bGU4LXNlY3Rpb24xMjg3%7C%7C%7C0%7Cfalse%7Cprelim&edition=prelim) / [CHAPTER 12](/view.xhtml;jsessionid=B94BB414E3B630B9977148AD7896F346?req=granuleid%3AUSC-prelim-title8-chapter12&saved=%7CZ3JhbnVsZWlkOlVTQy1wcmVsaW0tdGl0bGU4LXNlY3Rpb24xMjg3%7C%7C%7C0%7Cfalse%7Cprelim&edition=prelim) / [SUBCHAPTER II](/view.xhtml;jsessionid=B94BB414E3B630B9977148AD7896F346?req=granuleid%3AUSC-prelim-title8-chapter12-subchapter2&saved=%7CZ3JhbnVsZWlkOlVTQy1wcmVsaW0tdGl0bGU4LXNlY3Rpb24xMjg3%7C%7C%7C0%7Cfalse%7Cprelim&edition=prelim) / [Part VI](/view.xhtml;jsessionid=B94BB414E3B630B9977148AD7896F346?req=granuleid%3AUSC-prelim-title8-chapter12-subchapter2-part6&saved=%7CZ3JhbnVsZWlkOlVTQy1wcmVsaW0tdGl0bGU4LXNlY3Rpb24xMjg3%7C%7C%7C0%7Cfalse%7Cprelim&edition=prelim) / § 1287
 [Next >>](#)
[[Print]](#)
 [[Print selection]](#)
[[OLRC Home]](/browse.xhtml;jsessionid=B94BB414E3B630B9977148AD7896F346)[Help](/navHelp.xhtml;jsessionid=B94BB414E3B630B9977148AD7896F346)
8 USC 1287: Alien crewmen brought into the United States with intent to evade immigration laws; penalties
Text contains those laws in effect on April 6, 2024
From Title 8-ALIENS AND NATIONALITYCHAPTER 12-IMMIGRATION AND NATIONALITYSUBCHAPTER II-IMMIGRATIONPart VI-Special Provisions Relating to Alien Crewmen
Jump To: [Source Credit](#sourcecredit)[Miscellaneous](#miscellaneous-note)[Amendments](#amendment-note)[Effective Date](#effectivedate-amendment-note)
### §1287. Alien crewmen brought into the United States with intent to evade immigration laws; penalties
Any person, including the owner, agent, consignee, master, or commanding officer of any vessel or aircraft arriving in the United States from any place outside thereof, who shall knowingly sign on the vessel's articles, or bring to the United States as one of the crew of such vessel or aircraft, any alien, with intent to permit or assist such alien to enter or land in the United States in violation of law, or who shall falsely and knowingly represent to a consular officer at the time of application for visa, or to the immigration officer at the port of arrival in the United States, that such alien is a bona fide member of the crew employed in any capacity regularly required for normal operation and services aboard such vessel or aircraft, shall be liable to a penalty not exceeding $10,000 for each such violation, for which sum such vessel or aircraft shall be liable and may be seized and proceeded against by way of libel in any district court of the United States having jurisdiction of the offense.
([June 27, 1952, ch. 477, title II, ch. 6, §257, 66 Stat. 223](/statviewer.htm?volume=66&page=223); [Pub. L. 101–649, title V, §543(a)(7), Nov. 29, 1990, 104 Stat. 5058](/statviewer.htm?volume=104&page=5058).)
#### **Editorial Notes**
#### Amendments
**1990**-Pub. L. 101–649 substituted "$10,000" for "$5,000".
#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**
#### Effective Date of 1990 Amendment
Amendment by Pub. L. 101–649 applicable to actions taken after Nov. 29, 1990, see section 543(c) of Pub. L. 101–649, set out as a note under section 1221 of this title.
#### Abolition of Immigration and Naturalization Service and Transfer of Functions
For abolition of Immigration and Naturalization Service, transfer of functions, and treatment of related references, see note set out under section 1551 of this title.
