xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8' ?
8 USC 1536: Custody and release pending removal hearing
 Result 1 of 1
[Back to Original Document](/view.xhtml;jsessionid=F47D2EE308FDCCA35B06F5FDD7346919)
[<< Previous](#)
 [TITLE 8](/view.xhtml;jsessionid=F47D2EE308FDCCA35B06F5FDD7346919?req=granuleid%3AUSC-prelim-title8&saved=%7CZ3JhbnVsZWlkOlVTQy1wcmVsaW0tdGl0bGU4LXNlY3Rpb24xNTM2%7C%7C%7C0%7Cfalse%7Cprelim&edition=prelim) / [CHAPTER 12](/view.xhtml;jsessionid=F47D2EE308FDCCA35B06F5FDD7346919?req=granuleid%3AUSC-prelim-title8-chapter12&saved=%7CZ3JhbnVsZWlkOlVTQy1wcmVsaW0tdGl0bGU4LXNlY3Rpb24xNTM2%7C%7C%7C0%7Cfalse%7Cprelim&edition=prelim) / [SUBCHAPTER V](/view.xhtml;jsessionid=F47D2EE308FDCCA35B06F5FDD7346919?req=granuleid%3AUSC-prelim-title8-chapter12-subchapter5&saved=%7CZ3JhbnVsZWlkOlVTQy1wcmVsaW0tdGl0bGU4LXNlY3Rpb24xNTM2%7C%7C%7C0%7Cfalse%7Cprelim&edition=prelim) / § 1536
 [Next >>](#)
[[Print]](#)
 [[Print selection]](#)
[[OLRC Home]](/browse.xhtml;jsessionid=F47D2EE308FDCCA35B06F5FDD7346919)[Help](/navHelp.xhtml;jsessionid=F47D2EE308FDCCA35B06F5FDD7346919)
8 USC 1536: Custody and release pending removal hearing
Text contains those laws in effect on April 6, 2024
From Title 8-ALIENS AND NATIONALITYCHAPTER 12-IMMIGRATION AND NATIONALITYSUBCHAPTER V-ALIEN TERRORIST REMOVAL PROCEDURES
Jump To: [Source Credit](#sourcecredit)[Miscellaneous](#miscellaneous-note)
### §1536. Custody and release pending removal hearing
#### (a) Upon filing application
#### (1) In general
Subject to paragraphs (2) and (3), the Attorney General may-
(A) take into custody any alien with respect to whom an application under section 1533 of this title has been filed; and
(B) retain such an alien in custody in accordance with the procedures authorized by this subchapter.
#### (2) Special rules for permanent resident aliens
#### (A) Release hearing
An alien lawfully admitted for permanent residence shall be entitled to a release hearing before the judge assigned to hear the removal hearing. Such an alien shall be detained pending the removal hearing, unless the alien demonstrates to the court that the alien-
(i) is a person lawfully admitted for permanent residence in the United States;
(ii) if released upon such terms and conditions as the court may prescribe (including the posting of any monetary amount), is not likely to flee; and
(iii) will not endanger national security, or the safety of any person or the community, if released.
#### (B) Information considered
The judge may consider classified information submitted in camera and ex parte in making a determination whether to release an alien pending the removal hearing.
#### (3) Release if order denied and no review sought
#### (A) In general
Subject to subparagraph (B), if a judge of the removal court denies the order sought in an application filed pursuant to section 1533 of this title, and the Attorney General does not seek review of such denial, the alien shall be released from custody.
#### (B) Application of regular procedures
Subparagraph (A) shall not prevent the arrest and detention of the alien pursuant to subchapter II.
#### (b) Conditional release if order denied and review sought
#### (1) In general
If a judge of the removal court denies the order sought in an application filed pursuant to section 1533 of this title and the Attorney General seeks review of such denial, the judge shall release the alien from custody subject to the least restrictive condition, or combination of conditions, of release described in section 3142(b) and clauses (i) through (xiv) of section 3142(c)(1)(B) of title 18 that-
(A) will reasonably assure the appearance of the alien at any future proceeding pursuant to this subchapter; and
(B) will not endanger the safety of any other person or the community.
#### (2) No release for certain aliens
If the judge finds no such condition or combination of conditions, as described in paragraph (1), the alien shall remain in custody until the completion of any appeal authorized by this subchapter.
(June 27, 1952, ch. 477, title V, §506, as added [Pub. L. 104–132, title IV, §401(a), Apr. 24, 1996, 110 Stat. 1265](/statviewer.htm?volume=110&page=1265).)
#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**
#### Abolition of Immigration and Naturalization Service and Transfer of Functions
For abolition of Immigration and Naturalization Service, transfer of functions, and treatment of related references, see note set out under section 1551 of this title.
