xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8' ?
8 USC 1257: Adjustment of status of certain resident aliens to nonimmigrant status; exceptions
 Result 1 of 1
[Back to Original Document](/view.xhtml;jsessionid=6D6328ED04E48BC25CBA3E7BE74819EA)
[<< Previous](#)
 [TITLE 8](/view.xhtml;jsessionid=6D6328ED04E48BC25CBA3E7BE74819EA?req=granuleid%3AUSC-prelim-title8&saved=%7CZ3JhbnVsZWlkOlVTQy1wcmVsaW0tdGl0bGU4LXNlY3Rpb24xMjU3%7C%7C%7C0%7Cfalse%7Cprelim&edition=prelim) / [CHAPTER 12](/view.xhtml;jsessionid=6D6328ED04E48BC25CBA3E7BE74819EA?req=granuleid%3AUSC-prelim-title8-chapter12&saved=%7CZ3JhbnVsZWlkOlVTQy1wcmVsaW0tdGl0bGU4LXNlY3Rpb24xMjU3%7C%7C%7C0%7Cfalse%7Cprelim&edition=prelim) / [SUBCHAPTER II](/view.xhtml;jsessionid=6D6328ED04E48BC25CBA3E7BE74819EA?req=granuleid%3AUSC-prelim-title8-chapter12-subchapter2&saved=%7CZ3JhbnVsZWlkOlVTQy1wcmVsaW0tdGl0bGU4LXNlY3Rpb24xMjU3%7C%7C%7C0%7Cfalse%7Cprelim&edition=prelim) / [Part V](/view.xhtml;jsessionid=6D6328ED04E48BC25CBA3E7BE74819EA?req=granuleid%3AUSC-prelim-title8-chapter12-subchapter2-part5&saved=%7CZ3JhbnVsZWlkOlVTQy1wcmVsaW0tdGl0bGU4LXNlY3Rpb24xMjU3%7C%7C%7C0%7Cfalse%7Cprelim&edition=prelim) / § 1257
 [Next >>](#)
[[Print]](#)
 [[Print selection]](#)
[[OLRC Home]](/browse.xhtml;jsessionid=6D6328ED04E48BC25CBA3E7BE74819EA)[Help](/navHelp.xhtml;jsessionid=6D6328ED04E48BC25CBA3E7BE74819EA)
8 USC 1257: Adjustment of status of certain resident aliens to nonimmigrant status; exceptions
Text contains those laws in effect on April 6, 2024
From Title 8-ALIENS AND NATIONALITYCHAPTER 12-IMMIGRATION AND NATIONALITYSUBCHAPTER II-IMMIGRATIONPart V-Adjustment and Change of Status
Jump To: [Source Credit](#sourcecredit)[Miscellaneous](#miscellaneous-note)[Amendments](#amendment-note)[Effective Date](#effectivedate-amendment-note)
### §1257. Adjustment of status of certain resident aliens to nonimmigrant status; exceptions
(a) The status of an alien lawfully admitted for permanent residence shall be adjusted by the Attorney General, under such regulations as he may prescribe, to that of a nonimmigrant under paragraph (15)(A), (E), or (G) of section 1101(a) of this title, if such alien had at the time of admission or subsequently acquires an occupational status which would, if he were seeking admission to the United States, entitle him to a nonimmigrant status under such paragraphs. As of the date of the Attorney General's order making such adjustment of status, the Attorney General shall cancel the record of the alien's admission for permanent residence, and the immigrant status of such alien shall thereby be terminated.
(b) The adjustment of status required by subsection (a) shall not be applicable in the case of any alien who requests that he be permitted to retain his status as an immigrant and who, in such form as the Attorney General may require, executes and files with the Attorney General a written waiver of all rights, privileges, exemptions, and immunities under any law or any executive order which would otherwise accrue to him because of the acquisition of an occupational status entitling him to a nonimmigrant status under paragraph (15)(A), (E), or (G) of section 1101(a) of this title.
([June 27, 1952, ch. 477, title II, ch. 5, §247, 66 Stat. 218](/statviewer.htm?volume=66&page=218); [Pub. L. 104–208, div. C, title III, §308(f)(1)(P), Sept. 30, 1996, 110 Stat. 3009–621](/statviewer.htm?volume=110&page=3009-621).)
#### **Editorial Notes**
#### Amendments
**1996**-Subsec. (a). Pub. L. 104–208 substituted "time of admission" for "time of entry".
#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**
#### Effective Date of 1996 Amendment
Amendment by Pub. L. 104–208 effective, with certain transitional provisions, on the first day of the first month beginning more than 180 days after Sept. 30, 1996, see section 309 of Pub. L. 104–208, set out as a note under section 1101 of this title.
#### Abolition of Immigration and Naturalization Service and Transfer of Functions
For abolition of Immigration and Naturalization Service, transfer of functions, and treatment of related references, see note set out under section 1551 of this title.
