xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8' ?
8 USC 1454: Documents and copies issued by Attorney General
 Result 1 of 1
 
  
  Current
2018 Ed. and Supplement IV (1/5/2023)
2018 Ed. and Supplement III (1/3/2022)
2018 Ed. and Supplement II (1/13/2021)
2018 Ed. and Supplement I (1/24/2020)
2018 Main Ed. (1/14/2019)
2012 Ed. and Supplement V (1/12/2018)
2012 Ed. and Supplement IV (1/6/2017)
2012 Ed. and Supplement III (1/3/2016)
2012 Ed. and Supplement II (1/5/2015)
2012 Ed. and Supplement I (1/16/2014)
2012 Main Ed. (1/15/2013)
2006 Ed. and Supplement V (1/3/2012)
2006 Ed. and Supplement IV (1/7/2011)
2006 Ed. and Supplement III (2/1/2010)
2006 Ed. and Supplement II (1/5/2009)
2006 Ed. and Supplement I (1/8/2008)
2006 Main Ed. (1/3/2007)
2000 Ed. and Supplement V (1/2/2006)
2000 Ed. and Supplement IV (1/3/2005)
2000 Ed. and Supplement III (1/19/2004)
2000 Ed. and Supplement II (1/6/2003)
2000 Ed. and Supplement I (1/22/2002)
2000 Main Ed. (1/2/2001)
1994 Ed. and Supplement V (1/23/2000)
1994 Ed. and Supplement IV (1/5/1999)
1994 Ed. and Supplement III (1/26/1998)
1994 Ed. and Supplement II (1/6/1997)
1994 Ed. and Supplement I (1/16/1996)
1994 Main Ed. (1/4/1995)
  
 
  
[Back to Original Document](/view.xhtml;jsessionid=9E3136825516DCF4A32D5994E32F1090)
 
[<< Previous](#)
  
 [TITLE 8](/view.xhtml;jsessionid=9E3136825516DCF4A32D5994E32F1090?req=granuleid%3AUSC-prelim-title8&saved=%7CZ3JhbnVsZWlkOlVTQy1wcmVsaW0tdGl0bGU4LXNlY3Rpb24xNDU0%7C%7C%7C0%7Cfalse%7Cprelim&edition=prelim) / [CHAPTER 12](/view.xhtml;jsessionid=9E3136825516DCF4A32D5994E32F1090?req=granuleid%3AUSC-prelim-title8-chapter12&saved=%7CZ3JhbnVsZWlkOlVTQy1wcmVsaW0tdGl0bGU4LXNlY3Rpb24xNDU0%7C%7C%7C0%7Cfalse%7Cprelim&edition=prelim) / [SUBCHAPTER III](/view.xhtml;jsessionid=9E3136825516DCF4A32D5994E32F1090?req=granuleid%3AUSC-prelim-title8-chapter12-subchapter3&saved=%7CZ3JhbnVsZWlkOlVTQy1wcmVsaW0tdGl0bGU4LXNlY3Rpb24xNDU0%7C%7C%7C0%7Cfalse%7Cprelim&edition=prelim) / [Part II](/view.xhtml;jsessionid=9E3136825516DCF4A32D5994E32F1090?req=granuleid%3AUSC-prelim-title8-chapter12-subchapter3-part2&saved=%7CZ3JhbnVsZWlkOlVTQy1wcmVsaW0tdGl0bGU4LXNlY3Rpb24xNDU0%7C%7C%7C0%7Cfalse%7Cprelim&edition=prelim) / § 1454
  
 [Next >>](#)
[[Print]](#)
   
 [[Print selection]](#)
[[OLRC Home]](/browse.xhtml;jsessionid=9E3136825516DCF4A32D5994E32F1090)[Help](/navHelp.xhtml;jsessionid=9E3136825516DCF4A32D5994E32F1090)
 
8 USC 1454: Documents and copies issued by Attorney General
Text contains those laws in effect on April 6, 2024
From Title 8-ALIENS AND NATIONALITYCHAPTER 12-IMMIGRATION AND NATIONALITYSUBCHAPTER III-NATIONALITY AND NATURALIZATIONPart II-Nationality Through Naturalization
Jump To: [Source Credit](#sourcecredit)[Miscellaneous](#miscellaneous-note)[Amendments](#amendment-note)
### §1454. Documents and copies issued by Attorney General
(a) If any certificate of naturalization or citizenship issued to any citizen or any declaration of intention furnished to any declarant is lost, mutilated, or destroyed, the citizen or declarant may make application to the Attorney General for a new certificate or declaration. If the Attorney General finds that the certificate or declaration is lost, mutilated, or destroyed, he shall issue to the applicant a new certificate or declaration. If the certificate or declaration has been mutilated, it shall be surrendered to the Attorney General before the applicant may receive such new certificate or declaration. If the certificate or declaration has been lost, the applicant or any other person who shall have, or may come into possession of it is required to surrender it to the Attorney General.
(b) The Attorney General shall issue for any naturalized citizen, on such citizen's application therefor, a special certificate of naturalization for use by such citizen only for the purpose of obtaining recognition as a citizen of the United States by a foreign state. Such certificate when issued shall be furnished to the Secretary of State for transmission to the proper authority in such foreign state.
(c) If the name of any naturalized citizen has, subsequent to naturalization, been changed by order of any court of competent jurisdiction, or by marriage, the citizen may make application for a new certificate of naturalization in the new name of such citizen. If the Attorney General finds the name of the applicant to have been changed as claimed, the Attorney General shall issue to the applicant a new certificate and shall notify the naturalization court of such action.
(d) The Attorney General is authorized to make and issue certifications of any part of the naturalization records of any court, or of any certificate of naturalization or citizenship, for use in complying with any statute, State or Federal, or in any judicial proceeding. No such certification shall be made by any clerk of court except upon order of the court.
([June 27, 1952, ch. 477, title III, ch. 2, §343, 66 Stat. 263](/statviewer.htm?volume=66&page=263); [Pub. L. 100–525, §9(ee), Oct. 24, 1988, 102 Stat. 2621](/statviewer.htm?volume=102&page=2621).)
  
#### **Editorial Notes**
#### Amendments
**1988**-Pub. L. 100–525 redesignated subsecs. (b) to (e) as (a) to (d), respectively, and struck out former subsec. (a) which read as follows: "A person who claims to have been naturalized in the United States under section 323 of the Nationality Act of 1940 may make application to the Attorney General for a certificate of naturalization. Upon proof to the satisfaction of the Attorney General that the applicant is a citizen and that he has been naturalized as claimed in the application, such individual shall be furnished a certificate of naturalization by the Attorney General, but only if the applicant is at the time within the United States."
  
#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries**
#### Abolition of Immigration and Naturalization Service and Transfer of Functions
For abolition of Immigration and Naturalization Service, transfer of functions, and treatment of related references, see note set out under section 1551 of this title.
